content/blog/carla-tutorial-advanced.md, before:

---
title: "CARLA Simulator - Python API (Advanced)"
date: 2023-07-11T16:00:41+01:00
draft: false
author: "Han Wu"
categories: "Autonomous Driving"
tags: ["CARLA"]
thumbnail: "images/thumbnail/carla.png"
headline: 
    enabled: True
    background: ""
---

A step-by-step tutorial that uses 4 advanced examples to help you get familiar with CARLA APIs.

<!--more--> 


## Example 07: 3D Bounding Boxes

This example is available in the official CARLA [Tutorials](https://carla.readthedocs.io/en/0.9.14/tuto_G_bounding_boxes/).

![](https://wuhanstudio.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/carla_tutorial/07_3d_bounding_boxes.gif)

```
python 07_3d_bounding_boxes.py
```



<br />

<hr />

## Example 08: Draw Waypoints



![](https://wuhanstudio.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/carla_tutorial/08_draw_waypoints.gif)

```
python 08_draw_waypoints.py
```



<br />

<hr />

## Example 09: Basic Navigation

 

![](https://wuhanstudio.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/carla_tutorial/09_basic_navigation.gif)

```
python 09_basic_navigation.py
```



<br />

<hr />

## Example 10: Manual Control

This example is available in the official CARLA [Tutorials](https://carla.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tuto_G_pygame/).


![](https://wuhanstudio.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/carla_tutorial/10_manual_control.gif)


```
python 10_manual_control.py
```

## References

- Carla Official Documentation: https://carla.readthedocs.io/en/0.9.14/tutorials/

Commit message:

[carla tutorial] Advanced: Remove manual control and add intro

content/blog/carla-tutorial-advanced.md, after:

---
title: "CARLA Simulator - Python API (Advanced)"
date: 2023-07-11T16:00:41+01:00
draft: false
author: "Han Wu"
categories: "Autonomous Driving"
tags: ["CARLA"]
thumbnail: "images/thumbnail/carla.png"
headline: 
    enabled: True
    background: ""
---

A collection of autonomous driving tutorials in CARLA Simulator.

<!--more--> 

## Introduction

After getting familiar with CARLA API and Scenario Runner for autonomous driving challenge, I plan to write a series of autonomous driving algorithms in CARLA Simulator, including control, perception, localization, prediction & planning. 

For each advanced topic, I will create separate posts with detailed information. This page will serve as a hub, providing links to each specific topic for navigation purposes.

## Example 07: 3D Bounding Boxes

This example is available in the official CARLA [Tutorials](https://carla.readthedocs.io/en/0.9.14/tuto_G_bounding_boxes/).

![](https://wuhanstudio.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/carla_tutorial/07_3d_bounding_boxes.gif)

```
python 07_3d_bounding_boxes.py
```


<br />

<hr />

## Example 08: Draw Waypoints



![](https://wuhanstudio.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/carla_tutorial/08_draw_waypoints.gif)

```
python 08_draw_waypoints.py
```



<br />

<hr />

## Example 09: Basic Navigation

 

![](https://wuhanstudio.nyc3.cdn.digitaloceanspaces.com/blog/carla_tutorial/09_basic_navigation.gif)

```
python 09_basic_navigation.py
```


<br />

<hr />

## References

- Carla Official Documentation: https://carla.readthedocs.io/en/0.9.14/tutorials/
